Title: Japan - Week 2
Date: 
Author: Andres Franceschi
Category: travels
Tags: travels, japan, japan-trip-2013, china














Woke up, melted a sock, packed. Drove to Takaoka, then got on a non-shinkansen to Osaka. I chose it due to launching pad power. Got to Osaka, found a nearby youth hostel, dropped my stuff off. Went to Nanba station first, walked around, ate yakitori?, then a kyabetuyaki thing, then an okonomiyaki. I'd planned to find a dessert but was way too full. After that walked a bunch with no plan but to follow civilization looking roads. Ended up in Shin Sekai Osaka, kind of a surreal place, kind of creepy and it was freaking early. Kept walking, arrived at Tenouji. Decided to head back as city was shutting down so got back on the metro but got off at the wrong station so I walked a bit more to JR station as didn't want to pay twice. Osaka is a lot more modern. Then hostelled a bit, then sleep.

Woke up a bit earlier than expected as somoeone else was getting up, headed to Uji, tea capital. Pit stop in Kyoto to change trains, ate breakfast there, some sandwich. The arrived in Uji. Tea shops everywhere. Walked around a bunch, to a river, to a shrine, into tea shops that offered tea. Often talked to people as tea was served, with a few talked a bunch. Went to a proper tea ceremony as offered by the city, a lot more formal but with feweer explanations, the previous thing helped a lot. Then after went to Nara, very nice park, walked around it, shrines of various sorts, most weer expensive (10/5) so I watched from outside. Lots of walking with a backpack that got a bit heavy from tea stuff. Then after on the way back stopped at random coffee shop, mainly to charge my phone as the internet here kills it. Drank for a while, talked to owner a bit, then to two obaasans that walked in. Lots of mangekyou (can't remember in English) and similar vibe to coffee in shirakawa but a bit more excentric rather than super classical. After went back to Uji as I'd wanted to eat some stuff there but everything was closed, lots of aimless wandering, though I did get to see cool streets and houses, and near the station found another place which was meh but did the job food wise, some curry udon. 

Headed back to Kyoto. Was thinking of going a bit further to Himeji or the one after Kobe but shinkansen I got on didn't have plugs. I took that as a sign since I had 5% left or something and I was pretty wiped from walking, didn't want to be phoneless for a) emergencies, b) directions. So headed back to hostel, stapped by Joshin to get some massages, boughta battery pack, then hostel. Then woke up, left, to go to Fukuoka in Kyushu.

Arrived in Fukuouka, bright and early, left my stuff in a locker. Then trained to Tosu as the internet had said there was a big mall full of stores specializing in older things for cheap prices that you wouldn't be able to find elsewehere. Maybe if you're from North Korea or something as it was the most generic outlet mall ever. On the brightside it was far from the station so I walked there (braving lacks of sidewalks) and saw farm/town combo. After that went back, then took a train to Kumamoto and went to see the castle, had ikinaridango which was pretty good. Then back. Checked in at sketchy guest house, meh, went out to an onsen and stopped at Ichiran ramen, describe, then on the way to the onsen I saw really neat food stands that were covered so that a small group of people could sit down, would have loved to go but was super full. Then onsen, best thing ever after so much walking, like, wow. Then headed back, slept late (8) but just missed my train to Hiroshima.

Whatevs, waited, took train, arrived, had a bit of a trouble finding a locker. Found one. From the train emailed guest house person for room, worked! Woo. Then headed to Peace Park / Memorial Dome (need real names), holy shit. Super powerful, on the verge of tears the entire time. Mention history project. Sneaky me not being clear. Then went to get food, was 8 minutes late (but maybe they were closed anyway) so ended up at Okonomiyaki-mura. Had some of Hiroshima-style, very good. Then went to check in, 

Place Carpe Guest House, is super nice. A lot cleaner and less sketch. Hostess was Kayo-san, who doesn't seem too much older than me. Super helpful and kind. I was apparently the only one staying there that night so I got a dorm room room all to myself. Not bad. AFter drop-off went back out and saw Hiroshima Castle, clearly a reconstruction as, you know. Then walked around to *park*. Then headed back to the Guest House briefly. And Kayo-san suggested an izakaya nearby. Oyaji no mise. It was a lot of fun, definitely one of the highlights. Stayed there like 3 hours talking with the ten-in and the other guests. It's sort of pub-style + food. Had some beer and a sashimi platter, then ordered a salmon sashimi platter. Both were really good, apparently in the mornings there's a fishmarket they get their fish from. Met 2 girls around my age from Hiroshima, a business guy from Yokohama (Tokyo) that is working there but his family is back in Yokohama, a guy from Osaka that was super stereotipically Japanese 'cool guy', another guy from Hiroshima and the restauranteurs? Talked for a while about me and what they do, lots and lots of things. At some point Osaka guy ordered a plate of fresh (as in moving around) small crabs that were cooked in oil for the 'table' (we were sitting as the bar, as it were, though it's not quite a bar). As we stayed until the end got to have a slice of Okonomiyaki that they made as they made some for themselves and an extra one to split amongst everyone. Super cool people, if your Japanese is ok enough I can't recommend it enough. Then bed. Then wake up, go to Miyojima, didn't go to the top due to time but walked arounda fair bit, ate agemojimochi, some kind of mochi that is particular to the region and only in Miyajima they deep fry it, apparently. Either way very good. ALso had some kind of eel bun that was very tasty. Then headed back, said goodbyes, almost a shame I didn't spend longer in Hiroshima, definitely like the experience a lot. Then went to the shinkansen to Tokyo. Tried to book various places online and eeventually succeeded with a capsule hotel, hurray for mobile internet. 

-Tokyo :)



Tokyo arrival: sim card/actually cloudy?/pork bun/ accidental Sakura. Shinayama? station. Shinkansen. Power on shinkansen, too fast pictures+cloudy, very smooth. Arrive at Nagoya, wait a bit, Robert comes, go to Oozukano in Nagoya, helped him look for stuff, belt guy head counter, hotel calling, go to sushi in ichinomiya sushiro-, tried natto, was passing out on way to hotel, get there, hard to find, very small but nice beds, collapsed sometime ater nine, woke up around 6:something, waited a bit, woke up robert at 7:40, showers, then supermarket, breakfast, highway to kyoto, yoro -pit stop, sakuras, hot tea-milk-sugar reminds me of airplanes young, highway pass on right, wtf, pay to use, still cloudy+rainy, oh well.

Kyoto. Konbi breakfast, croquet+onigiri. Go to kyomizutera, lots of sakura ssakura sakura sakura, cool streets alleys, walked to hachihan? hachi then han from hankyuu (train line)  jinja, had taiyaki, still cloudy, white, white balance, then drive to kawaramachi to see sakura (will return), almost got towed, now en route to arashiyama. Rest stop, dango. Arashiyama, got on train, got off at Utano (random stop), came back, tried to get into Zen temple but magic handshake by women in front of us didn't need ticket so screw it. Now starving, going to onsen. Ate at random ramen place, ok. Stopped electronics store, amazing massage chair, Then onsen for a whiiiile (3 hours) sakura, outside, , did super service super hot room, fans, very cool.

Went to media cafe (manga kissa), I got 6 hour deal, got tiny "room", made do, Robert slept in car.
      Then headed back towards Kyoto to Fushimi-Inari-Taisha (not jinja). Took a detour as I need to gett some words out. Then went to that temple. It's big and spread out. Lots of mountains and toori, pretty. Weird that while architecture/colors similar to China, much more orange but still almost gaudishly bright. Some people were also worshipping here. Need to go back to Zen buddhist temple to hit up 4 similar temples. Up all the way, we think, lots unexplored, could see starting point from the top, hella far, came back down. Ate at a soba/udon place, pretty delicious. Took some more sakura photos, time was running was running somewhat short so we began the journey back to Robert's village aka middle of nowhere aka Shiragawa.

We arrived and I was pretty wiped as I've been feeling slightly sick. Went to see stars nearby, a bit cloudy but could still see a bunch. Went to bed early, slept a lot. Robert had to in to work the next day. While he was out I went out and walked around. At first fell at a bit weird, like maybe I was intruding but I got over it. VEry rustic/blue collar-y looking. Super quiet, barely saw any people. Then we met for lunch and hat kattakedon (some kind of dish they only have here), then as it was pretty big lunch decided to take a nap. Overslept, woke up at 3. Went to walka around the more history part of the town where tourists come as it's a world heritage site. STopped a coffee shop and talked to the owner/guy a bit. Then walked around a bit more until Robert was done,. then went to Miyuki's house, saw the ???-chestnut tree sculptures. 3 floors. Used to make gunpowder below floor. Silkworms. After had a delicious sesame pudding made by a student's mom (sold in stores), then a local onsen, talked a bit with the guy there. 

Woke up at 5, played around a bit, decided to wake up when Robert woke up but then woke up at almost noon. Luckily I didn't feel at all sick anymore so I guess taking it easy helped. By then he was going to come pick me up for the entrance ceremony soon, so I got ready then left to see it. It was pretty nice, they sang, bowed a lot, parents all dressed up. Pretty interesting experience overall. Then afterwards went to an explanation of the japanese tea ceremony. Pretty different from the CHinese one. Uses matcha, koi/usui, turning the drinking vessel, thanks, passing it, sweets, didn't get all the explanations but it was good, very kind of her to do so. Then after we went to a nearby city to do some shopping. Went to 100yen store, round 2 of massage chairs, then got sashimi at supermarket, then book store, then head back. Rain. It's supposed to rain the next day + heavy winds puttings some plans in jeopardy. We'll see. 

Wake up, go to temple with Kumi? tea ceremony lady, try unprocessed sake, very tasty, sweet hard to believe it's 15%. Then went to a few recycle/antique stores. Saw a fish market in a mall, ate tempura, Then kenrokuen. All day raining/winds miserable. Kenrokuen beatiful but damn, rain + cold + wind. By the end it was tough. Went from store to store waiting for it to be dark to see night-lit sakura. Had to buy two hot drinks (thank you for those vending machines!), then rushed to a nearby onsen but took a detour to exchange my railpass. Onsen was good, talked a bit with randomly met father of two Robert's students, had fish eat my feet, all good in the hood but it was a bit expensive. Made it back 70km on reserve as no gas stations were open, didn't think we'd make it but the car pulled through.